Industrial Control Systems (ICSs) play a critical role in automating and controlling industrial processes, with humans acting as integral components of these system's process. Human errors within ICS can have significant impact on processes and safety of the system and user. It makes it essential to understand the factors that contribute to human errors and implement targeted interventions. Various factors that influence and mitigate human errors, including organizational, supervisory, personal, and technical factors are explored. The impact of a security incident is also taken into consideration. A Bayesian Belief Network (BBN) model is developed to comprehensively model these factors and demonstrate their impact, especially in the context of security incidents. Probability distributions are employed with practical assumptions to overcome data limitations, emphasizing the model's utility in risk assessment. The model's complexity is addressed by using multiple interconnected models, enhancing accuracy and avoiding unnecessary intricacies. Despite challenges in identifying all relevant factors, a sincere effort to incorporate diverse research findings is done. This paper highlights the essential role of BBN models in understanding and mitigating human errors, contributing to the resilience of ICS processes. The use of BBN and probabilistic distributions enables a quantitative and probabilistic analysis of human error impact, aiding in the development of more robust risk management strategies and improved system resilience in ICS environments.
